hi this is pressure Locker in this video
we're going to describe the math of what
a standard drink is in America they
often say that one beer is equal to one
glass of wine which is also equal to one
shot of hard alcohol but where did they
come up with this equivalency between
different types of alcohol the reason is
the definition of a standard drink is
0.6 fluid ounces of alcohol and each of
these drinks actually contains that
amount of alcohol we can verify this by
looking at the alcohol percentage of
each of the drinks and we'll also write
down the standard serving size of each
of these drinks when we multiply the
alcohol percentage by the drink size we
find that each of these drinks contains
the standard point 6 fluid ounces of
alcohol and this is great for theory but
what happens in practice let's say you
go to a bar and order a tall craft beer
now very likely this tall craft beer may
have 7% alcohol and a tall beer is often
served in a 23 ounce glass so what you
end up with is about 2.7 standard drinks
similarly if you get a cocktail and
someone serves you a strong cocktail you
may end up with something which has a
little bit higher alcohol percentage and
it might have a little more alcohol than
the standard serving and so you'll end
up with more than just one standard
drink you can even run into trouble with
wine many wines in fact are not 12% but
they are 15% and some one might serve
you a little more than a standard
serving size so even with wine you can
end up with nearly double the amount of
alcohol so if you want to keep track of
this number of drinks you're having in a
night you can follow this formula the
number of standard drinks will be equal
to the volume times the alcohol
percentage divided by
six the numerator tells you how much
alcohol is in your drink and the
denominator standardizes this - one
drink equivalent you can often find the
alcohol percentage just by looking at
the label and looking for the ABV which
is the alcohol by volume there are many
websites and even smartphone apps
that'll do this calculation for you
but if you find this is all too much
trouble you can save yourself the
calculation the calories and the cash by
choosing not to drink for the night I
hope you like this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and game theory you can support me
on patreon to get exclusive rewards
catch me on my blog my near decisions
on Twitter a pressure Locker and you can
get my books listed on my website